# Ch. 11: Regular Expressions; Sam Disharoon; 20220616

## Objectives

- Use the _re_ module to perform regular expression pattern matching
- Understand and use character classes and quantifiers when building a regular expression
- Use groups to apply quantifiers to a group with an expression 
- Use groups to capture and manipulate the text that a reg ex matches
- Understand and use the various functions withtin the _re_ module to operate on regex

### Intro

The _re_ module provides regex matching operations within python

This provides a standard textual syntax for representing patterns that matching text  needs to conform to

They are essentially a tiny, highly specialzed language

### Simple Char Matches

Most ordinary chars are the simplest regex. They match themselves. You can easily concatenate them as we have been doing since the start 

### Special Characters

These are also known as _metacharacters_. These stand for classes of ordinary chars or affect how the regex around them are interpreted. A few are listed below:
- \
- .
- ^
- $
- ?
- +
- *
- { and }
- [ and ]
- ( and )
- |

The documentation of these are found on the web like everything else


### Character Classes

A character class is set of chars enclosed within square brackets

The simplest form of regex is a set of side-by-side characters within square brackets

There are a couple of character classes that are important:
- .
- \d
- \D
- \s
- \S
- \w
- \W

All of the documentation for these are online

### Quantifiers

Allows for specifying the number of occurances against which to match, a few examples are:

- *
- +
- ?
- {m,n}
- {m,}
- {,n}
- {m}

There are tons of these, and the important ones are all documented on the python docs page

### Greedy and Non-Greedy Quantifiers

All of the above quantifiers are _greedy_. This means when given a choice, the longest match will be chosen

### Alternatives

The | operator can be used as an _or_ operator to specify alternatives.

### Additional Functions

There are plenty of other functions that _re_ provides including:
- re.match()
- re.fullmtach()
- re.findall()
- re.split()
- re.sub()
- re.compile()

### Flags

Many of the functions in the _re_ module accept optional flags, used to enable various special features and syntax variations. They are either _long_ or _short_ named 


